.\" Copyright William Gilreatb, 2022
.\" Published in Linux Magazine November 2022.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Do not restrict distribution.
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" First release, wfg 11-25-22
.\"

.TH zing 8 man 8 ZING(8) "November 2022" "1.0" "zing man page"
.PP
.SH NAME
.B zing   
- zero packet pING to network hosts on specific ports.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B zing [ -h | [-4|-6] [-c count] [-op ops] [-p ports] [-t timeout] ] host 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The zing utility uses a socket to connect on multiple ports of a remote host that have an IP address
either IPv4 or IPv6. The default ports are HTTP port 80 and HTTPS port 443 on a remote host. The 
zing utility will connect multiple times, determine if the remote host is present, and the minimum, 
maximum, average, and standard deviation of the time to reach the host.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.B  -4	Use IPv4 addresses for the remote host.
.PP
.B  -6	Use IPv6 addresses for the remote host.
.PP
.B  -c	The count of the number of ops or operations to the remote host.
.PP 
.B  -h	Print help with the zing command-line interface parameters.
.PP
.B -op	The number of operations or ops for an operation to remote host.
.PP
.B  -p	The list of ports to zing on the remote host.
.PP
.B  -t	Specify the timeout in milliseconds before zing exits.
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
.B zing -4 -c 4 -op 4 -p 80,443 -t 4000 google.com

.SH EXIT STATUS
The zing utility exits with one of the following values:
.PP
.B 0 	The zing operation was successful with the specified host.
.PP
.B 1 	The zing operation was unable to find or reach the specified host.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
netstat(1), ifconfig(8), routed(8), traceroute(8), ping(8)

.SH HISTORY
The zing utility appeared in the November 2022 in Linux Magazine.
      
.SH AUTHOR
The original zing utility was written by William F. Gilreath (will@wfgilreath.xyz) in Java, ported to C# and Python.

.SH BUGS
I should think so. No known bugs initially.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2022 William Gilreath, License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. 
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY to the extent permitted by the law.

